So you have
learned a little bit about functions in JavaScript, in this section, we're going
to examine functions in more detail. So I'm going to start
defining a function called walk and
here we do a console.log of
walk. What we have here is what we refer to as
a function declaration.
But in JavaScript there is another way to define a function,
and that is using a function expression. So
we start by declaring a variable or a constant
give it a name like run and then we set that to
a function. So just like we can set a variable to
a number, or a string, or an object,
we can also set it to a function. And you know that in JavaScript
functions are objects. So setting the
variable to a function is similar to setting it to an object, okay?
And at the end here we need to add a semi colon, because when
ever we declare a variable or a constant, we terminate this statement,
with a semi colon. So here's another example. We set x to 1,
and terminate it with a semi colon. In contrast,
we don't put the semi colon when we define a function using the function
declaration syntax, it doesn't really matter, so if you run this code
you're not going to get any errors, but by convention, we don't do
this. So that's one difference between function declarations and
function expressions. Now, let's do a console.
log, of run here.
So basically here we have defined a function, and this function
does not have a name. Its syntax is very similar to what
we have in a function declaration, except that here we don't have a name,
we can give it a name and then we would refer to this as
a named function expression. Or we can exclude
the name and with this we have
an anonymous function expression. So we have defined
an anonymous function that doesn't have a name, and set run
to reference that function. So now we can call that
anonymous function using this reference.
Just like how we call a function in JavaScript. So, save the changes,
and we get the run message on the console. Now we can declare
another variable, call it move, and set it to
run. So now both move and run are
referencing the same anonymous function, which is one object
in memory. So we can call that anonymous function using
this other reference. So if we call move,
we get the same result. So to recap, in JavaScript
there are two ways to define a function, we can use the function declaration
syntax, or function expression which basically
involves declaring a variable or a constant
and then setting it to a function. In the next lecture,
we'll look at the key difference between a function declaration, and a
function expression.